README.md, before:

# OSP2 - Open Source Processor V2
*Created by Tori A. Hall*

## Table Of Contents

- [1.0   Introduction](#10--introduction)
  - [1.1 Inspiration](#11--inspiration)
  - [1.2 Project Goals](#12--project-goals)

- [2.0   Design](#20--design)
  - [2.1 Initial Specification](#21--initial-specification)
  - [2.2 Registers](#22--registers)
  - [2.3 Arithmetic + Logic]()
  - [2.4 Branch Logic]()
  - [2.5 Instruction Set]()
  - [2.6 Circuit Design]()
 
- [3.0   Assembly Language]()
  - [3.1 Assembler Design]()
  - [3.2 Assembler Syntax]()
 
- [4.0   Emulator]()
  - [4.1 Design]()
  - [4.2 Features]()
  - [4.3 Implementation]()
  - [4.4 Usage]()



## 1.0  Introduction

### 1.1  Inspiration

OSP2 is a spiritual successor to an old 8-bit CPU I 
designed half a year ago called the OSP-8. This project
is intented to fix a number of issues and design mistakes
I made during the development of that project, to create
a far more stable and efficient processor.

### 1.2  Project Goals

This project is intended to create a small, 8-bit 
processor that is easy to write programs for. It is intended
to be used in embedded systems, or for educational purposes.
I am designing this system in the hope that someday, a person
will make use of it for a project of their own.

Here is a basic outline of my goals:

  - [ ] Circuit design in Logisim Evolution
  - [ ] Full emulator for Windows & Linux
  - [ ] Simple to use RISC Instruction Set
  - [ ] (Mostly) POSIX-Compatible Operating System



## 2.0  Design

### 2.1  Initial Specification

The OSP2 will be an 8-Bit processor with a 24-bit address
BUS, allowing it to acces 16MiB of memory. It will make use of 
a Reduced Instruction Set, meaning memory locations can only be
changed or read through direct LOAD or STORE instructions. This
greatly simplifies control logic, and reduces the number of 
instructions or addressing modes needed.

### 2.2  Registers

The OSP2 makes use of a small number of internal registers in 
order to perform operations on the contents of memory. These
registers allow the programmer to perform arithmetic, logical
and conditional instructions. These registers are split into
2 categories: Programmable and Non-Programmable. As suggested
by the names, programmable registers can be directly modified
using instructions. The non-programmable registers, however,
cannot be directly modified by most instructions.

The registers are as follows:

**Programmable Registers**
| Binary Index | Name | Bit Width | Function |
|--------------|------|-----------|----------|
| 00           | RA   | 8         | General-Purpose |
| 01           | RB   | 8         | General-Purpose |
| 10           | RC   | 8         | General-Purpose |
| 11           | RD   | 8         | General-Purpose |

> **Note**: The 4 programmable registers are treated as 2 16-bit
> registers in certain instructions. In these cases, the registers
> are RAB and RCD (Where RA and RC represent the high bytes).

**Non-Programmable Registers**
| Name | Bit Width | Function |
|------|-----------|----------|
| PC   | 24        | Program Counter |
| MAR  | 24        | Memory Address Register |
| SP   | 24        | Stack Pointer  |
| CIR  | 8         | Current Instruction Register |
| MBR  | 8         | Memory Buffer Register |

### 2.3  Arithmetic + Logic

Commit message:

Added section 2.3 to README.md

README.md, after:

# OSP2 - Open Source Processor V2
*Created by Tori A. Hall*

## Table Of Contents

- [1.0   Introduction](#10--introduction)
  - [1.1 Inspiration](#11--inspiration)
  - [1.2 Project Goals](#12--project-goals)

- [2.0   Design](#20--design)
  - [2.1 Initial Specification](#21--initial-specification)
  - [2.2 Registers](#22--registers)
  - [2.3 Arithmetic + Logic](#23--arithmetic--logic)
  - [2.4 Branch Logic]()
  - [2.5 Instruction Set]()
  - [2.6 Circuit Design]()
 
- [3.0   Assembly Language]()
  - [3.1 Assembler Design]()
  - [3.2 Assembler Syntax]()
 
- [4.0   Emulator]()
  - [4.1 Design]()
  - [4.2 Features]()
  - [4.3 Implementation]()
  - [4.4 Usage]()



## 1.0  Introduction

### 1.1  Inspiration

OSP2 is a spiritual successor to an old 8-bit CPU I 
designed half a year ago called the OSP-8. This project
is intented to fix a number of issues and design mistakes
I made during the development of that project, to create
a far more stable and efficient processor.

### 1.2  Project Goals

This project is intended to create a small, 8-bit 
processor that is easy to write programs for. It is intended
to be used in embedded systems, or for educational purposes.
I am designing this system in the hope that someday, a person
will make use of it for a project of their own.

Here is a basic outline of my goals:

  - [ ] Circuit design in Logisim Evolution
  - [ ] Full emulator for Windows & Linux
  - [ ] Simple to use RISC Instruction Set
  - [ ] (Mostly) POSIX-Compatible Operating System



## 2.0  Design

### 2.1  Initial Specification

The OSP2 will be an 8-Bit processor with a 24-bit address
BUS, allowing it to acces 16MiB of memory. It will make use of 
a Reduced Instruction Set, meaning memory locations can only be
changed or read through direct LOAD or STORE instructions. This
greatly simplifies control logic, and reduces the number of 
instructions or addressing modes needed.

### 2.2  Registers

The OSP2 makes use of a small number of internal registers in 
order to perform operations on the contents of memory. These
registers allow the programmer to perform arithmetic, logical
and conditional instructions. These registers are split into
2 categories: Programmable and Non-Programmable. As suggested
by the names, programmable registers can be directly modified
using instructions. The non-programmable registers, however,
cannot be directly modified by most instructions.

The registers are as follows:

**Programmable Registers**
| Binary Index | Name | Bit Width | Function |
|--------------|------|-----------|----------|
| 00           | RA   | 8         | General-Purpose |
| 01           | RB   | 8         | General-Purpose |
| 10           | RC   | 8         | General-Purpose |
| 11           | RD   | 8         | General-Purpose |

> **Note**: The 4 programmable registers are treated as 2 16-bit
> registers in certain instructions. In these cases, the registers
> are RAB and RCD (Where RA and RC represent the high bytes).

**Non-Programmable Registers**
| Name | Bit Width | Function |
|------|-----------|----------|
| PC   | 24        | Program Counter |
| MAR  | 24        | Memory Address Register |
| SP   | 24        | Stack Pointer  |
| CIR  | 8         | Current Instruction Register |
| MBR  | 8         | Memory Buffer Register |
| FLG  | 5         | Flag Register |

### 2.3  Arithmetic + Logic

The ALU of the OSP2 is responsible for performing the basic operations
such as addition and subtraction. It has two operating modes; 8-bit mode
and 16-bit mode.

By default, the ALU operates in 8-bit mode. In this state, it takes inputs
each from the data bus and a register. It is then given an instruction from
the control unit, before carrying out the operation and updating the relevant
flags. The result is then stored to the register that gave its input.

In 16-bit mode, the ALU takes its inputs from RAB and RCD, and the result is
stored to the 16-bit register RAB. While this system is less flexible, it allows
for the processor to work with 16-bit values, while retaining an 8-bit data bus.

The flag register is a 5-bit register inside the ALU, that feeds its value into the
Control Unit to allow for the execution of conditional instructions. It is as follows:

    43210
    ZCNLG
    ||||+- Greater Than
    |||+-- Less Than
    ||+--- Negative
    |+---- Carry
    +----- Zero

Each bit in this register corresponds to a single flag, such as the Zero flag. For
information on which instructions update which flags, please refer to section 2.5.
